# The Matrix Inverse
## Matrix Operations
### Matrix Addition and Scalar Multiplication
- A zero matrix is any matrix whose every entry is zero.
- The $n \times n$ identity matrix has ones on the main diagonal, otherwise all zeros.
- any matrix with dimensions $n \times n$ is square.

Suppose $A$ and $B$ are $m \times n$ matrices. $a_{i,j}$ is the entry of $A$ in row $i$ and column $j$, and $b_{i,j}$ is the entry of $B$ in row $i4 and column $j$.
- The entries of $A + B$ are $a_{i,j} +b_{i,j}$.
- If $c \in R$, then the entries of $cA$ are $ca_{i,j}$ .

#### Properties of Sums and Scalar Multiples
Note that $r,s \in R$ are scalars, and $A,B,C$ are $m \times n$ matrices.
1. $A + 0_{m,n} = A$
2. $(A + B) + C = A + (B + C)$
3. $r(A + B) = rA + rB$
4. $(r + s)A = rA + sA$
5. $r(sA) = (rs)A$

### Matrix Multiplication
Let $A$ be a $m \times n$ matrix, and $B$ be a $n \times p$ matrix. The product is AB a $m \times p$ matrix.
$$
AB = A\left( \vec{b}_1 \ \cdots \ \vec{b}_p \right) 
= \left( A\vec{b}_1 \ \cdots \ A\vec{b}_p \right)
$$

Note that matrix multiplication corresponds to composition of the linear transformations.

#### Row-Collumn Method
The Row Column Rule is a convenient way to calculate the matrix multiplicaion.  
Let $A$ be an $m \times n$ matrix, and $B$ be an $n \times p$ matrix. The entry in row $i$ and column $j$ of $AB$ is the sum of the products of corresponding entries of row $i$ of $A$, and column $j$ of $B$.
$$
(AB)_{ij} = a_{i1}b_{1j} + a_{i2}b_{2j} + a_{i3}b_{3j} + \cdots + a_{in}b_{nj}
$$

#### Matrix Dimensions and Matrix Multiplication
Note that the dimensions of matrix $A$ and $B$ determine whether $AB$ is defined and what its dimensions will be.  
When $A$ is $m \times n$ matrix and $B$ is $n \times p$ matrix, the number of column of matrix $A$ which is $n$ should be equal to the row of column of matrix $B$. And the dimension of matrix $AB$ is defined by the row column of $A$, $n$ times the column of $B$, $p$, so $n \times p$.

#### Properties of Matrix Multiplication
$A,B,C$ be matrices of the sizes needed for the matrix multiplication to be defined, and $A$ is a $m \times n$ matrix.

1. (Associative) $(AB)C = A(BC)$
2. (Left Distributive) $A(B + C) = AB + AC$
3. (Right Distributive) $(A + B)C = AC + AC$
4. (Identity for matrix multiplication) $I_mA  = A I_n$
5. (non-commutative) In general, $AB \neq BA$.
6. (non-cancellation) $AB = AC$ does not mean $B = C$.
7. (Zero divisors) $AB = 0$ does not mean that either $A = 0$ or $B = 0$.

### Matrix Transpose and Powers
#### The Transpose of a Matrix
Transpose of a Matrix is the matrix whose columns are the rows of A. The transpose of a matrix $A$, denoted by $A^T$ may be constructed by any of the following methods.

1. Reflect $A$ over its main diagonal (which runs from the top left to the bottom right) to obtain $A^T$ 
3.Write the rows of $A$ as the columns of $A^T$ 
4.Write the columns of $A$ as the rows of $A^T$ 

Formally, the $i$ th row, $j$ th column element of $A^T$  is the $j$ th row, $i$ th column element of $A$.

#### Matrix Powers
For $n \times n$ matrix and positive integer $k$, $^k$ is the product of $k$ copies of $A$.
$$
A^k = AA \cdots A
$$

## Inverse of a Matrix
$A \in \mathbb{R}^{n \times n}$ is invertible (=non-singular) if there is a
$C \in \mathbb{R}^{n \times n}$ so that $AC = CA = I_n$. If there is, we write $C = A^{-1}$. However, a matrix that is not invertible is singular.

### The Inverse of a $2 \times 2$ matrix
The $2 \times 2$ matrix $\begin{pmatrix} a & b \\ c & d \end{pmatrix}$ is non singular(invertible) if and only if $ad-bc \neq 0$, and
$$
\begin{pmatrix}
a & b \\
c & d
\end{pmatrix}^{-1}
=
\frac{1}{ad - bc}
\begin{pmatrix}
d & -b \\
-c & a
\end{pmatrix}
$$

Also we can use a matrix inverse to solve the linear system. For example,
$$

3x_1 + 4x_2 = 7 \\
5x_1 + 6x_2 = 7 \\[5pt]

A =
\begin{pmatrix}
3 & 4 \\
5 & 6
\end{pmatrix},
\quad
\vec{x} =
\begin{pmatrix}
x_1 \\
x_2
\end{pmatrix},
\quad
\vec{b} =
\begin{pmatrix}
7 \\
7
\end{pmatrix}

\\[5pt]
A \vec{x} = \vec{b} \quad \Rightarrow \quad 
A^{-1}A\vec{x} = A^{-1}\vec{b}
\quad \Rightarrow \quad
\vec{x} = A^{-1}\vec{b}
$$

### The Inverse of an $n \times n$ Matrix
Suppose $A \in \mathbb{R}^{n \times n}$. An algorithm for Computing $A^{-1}$ is described follows.
1. Row reduce the augmented matrix $(A \mid I_n)$ to RREF.
2. If reduction has form $( I_n \mid B)$ then $A$ is invertible and $B = A^{-1}. Otherwise, $A$ is not invertible.

Let's understand why this algorithm produce the inverse matrix.
Suppose $A$ is a $3 \times 3$ matrix and $A^{-1} = (\vec{x_1}, \vec{x_2}, \vec{x_3})$. The first column of $A^{-1}$ is,
$$ \vec{x_1} = A^{-1} \vec{e_1} $$
This implies,
$$
A \vec{x_1} = \vec{e_1} \text{ or } (A \mid \vec{e_1})
$$

Therefore if we row reduce matrix $A$ to RREF, we obtain the first column of the inverse, $\vec{x_1}$. Each column of $A^{-1}$ is found by reducing $A \vec{x_i} = \vec{e_i}$.  
행렬을 RREF로 만들 었다는 것은 pivot column에 pivot (leading variables)만 있는 형태인거고 RREF로 $A$를 Identiy matrix $I$로 만들수 있다는 것은 모든 column 이 pivot column이고 pivot이 존재한다는 의미이기 때문에, 이 말은 해가 항상 존재하고 유일하다는 걸 의미한다. 따라서 역행렬이 존재하기에  $A \vec{x_i} = \vec{e_i}$ 형태에서 $x$의 해를 얻을 수 있는 것이다.

Note that, 행렬 $A$ 를 RREF로 만들면 pivot 구조를 확인할 수 있다. 만약 모든 column이 pivot column이라면, RREF는 identity matrix $I$가 된다. 이는 각 변수에 대해 해가 항상 존재하고 유일함을 의미한다.

### Elementary Matrices
An elementary matrix, $E$, is one that differs by $I$ by one row operation.
Recall our elementary row operations:
- swap rows.
- multiply a row by a non-zero scalar.
- add a multiple of one row to another.
Also note that every elementary matrix $E$ is invertible and square.

We can represent each operation by a matrix multiplication with an elementary matrix. For example, from below matrix formula, note that $E$ differs from $I$ by one row operaion, $R_2 + 2R_1$. So the right hand side matrix of the formula is also $R_2 + 2R_1$ of matrix in the left hand side.
$$
E
\begin{pmatrix}
1 & 1 & 1 \\
-2 & 1 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 1
\end{pmatrix}
=
\begin{pmatrix}
1 & 1 & 1 \\
0 & 3 & 2 \\
0 & 0 & 1
\end{pmatrix}, \quad

E =
\begin{pmatrix}
1 & 0 & 0 \\
2 & 1 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 1
\end{pmatrix}, \quad I=
\begin{pmatrix}
1 & 0 & 0 \\
0 & 1 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 1
\end{pmatrix}
$$
Returning to understanding why our algorithm to compute $A^{-1}$ works, matrix $A$ is invertible if and only if it is row equivalent to the identity. In this case, the any sequence of elementary row operations that transforms $A$ into $I$, applied to $I$, generates $A^{-1}$.
$$
(E_k \cdots E_3 E_2 E-1)A = I, \quad A^{-1} = (E_k \cdots E_3 E_2 E-1)
$$

### Limitation of Algorithm
Our algorithm will have limitations but the concept of a matrix inverse is
something that is widely used in applications of linear algebra, even if it is not
used in practice. In other words, $A^{-1}$ is seldom used because computing it takes a
very long time, and is prone to numerical error.

### The Invertible Matrix Theorem
1. $A$ is invertible.
2. $A$ is row equivalent to In.
3. $A$ has n pivotal columns (all columns are pivotal).
4. $A \vec{x} = \vec{0}$ has only the trivial solution.
5. The columns of $A$ are linearly independent.
6. The equation $A \vec{x} = \vec{b}$ has a solution for all $\vec{b} \in \mathbb{R}^n$.
7. The columns of $A$ span $\mathbb{R}^n$.
8. There is a $n \times n$ matrix $C$ so that $CA = I$ ($A$ has a left inverse.)
9. There is a $n \times n$ matrix $D$ so that $AD = I$ ($A$ has a right inverse.)
10. $A^T$ is invertible.