# Embeddings:Embedding space and Static embeddings
An embedding is a vector representation of data in embedding space. Generally speaking, a model finds potential embeddings by projecting the high-dimensional space of initial data vectors into a lower-dimensional space.

## Embedding Vector
Broadly speaking, an array of floating-point numbers taken from any hidden layer that describe the inputs to that hidden layer. Often, an embedding vector is the array of floating-point numbers trained in an embedding layer.   
An embedding vector is not a bunch of random numbers. An embedding layer determines these values through training, similar to the way a neural network learns other weights during training. The numbers in the embedding vector will change each time you retrain the model, even if you retrain the model with identical input.

For example, suppose an embedding layer must learn an embedding vector for each of the 73,000 tree species on Earth. Perhaps the following array is the embedding vector for a baobab tree.
$$
[0.819292, 0.1293829, 0.12349123, \cdots, 0.9102393]
$$
Each element of the array is a rating along some characteristic of a tree species. But which element represents which tree species' characteristic? That's very hard for humans to determine. The mathematically remarkable part of an embedding vector is that similar items have similar sets of floating-point numbers. For example, similar tree species have a more similar set of floating-point numbers than dissimilar tree species. Redwoods and sequoias are related tree species, so they'll have a more similar set of floating-pointing numbers than redwoods and coconut palms. 

## Embedding Space
The d-dimensional vector space that features from a higher-dimensional vector space are mapped to. Embedding space is trained to capture structure that is meaningful for the intended application.

The dot product of two embeddings is a measure of their similarity. In other words, in an embedding space, the distance between any two items can be calculated mathematically, and can be interpreted as a measure of relative similarity between those two items.

## Feature Vector
The feature vector is input during training and during inference. 

## Real-world embedding spaces
In the real world, embedding spaces are d-dimensional, where d is much higher than 3, though lower than the dimensionality of the data, and relationships between data points are not necessarily as intuitive as expected.  

In practice, the ML practitioner usually sets the specific task and the number of embedding dimensions. The model then tries to arrange the training examples to be close in an embedding space with the specified number of dimensions, or tunes for the number of dimensions, if d is not fixed. The individual dimensions are rarely as understandable as "dessertness" or "liquidness." Sometimes what they "mean" can be inferred but this is not always the case.  

Also note that the embeddings will usually be specific to the task, and differ from each other when the task differs. For example, the embeddings generated by a vegetarian versus non-vegetarian classification model will be different from the embeddings generated by a model that suggests dishes based on time of day or season.

## Static embeddings
While embeddings differ from task to task, one task has some general applicability: predicting the context of a word. Models trained to predict the context of a word assume that words appearing in similar contexts are semantically related.  
One example of static embedding is word2vec. The word2vec trains on a corpus of documents to obtain a single global embedding per word. When each word or data point has a single embedding vector, this is called a static embedding. 즉 하나의 단어는 하나의 고정된 임베딩만 가지고 문맥에 따라 변하지 않는다.

Research suggests that these static embeddings, once trained, encode some degree of semantic information, particularly in relationships between words. That is, words that are used in similar contexts will be closer to each other in embedding space.

## Training an embedding as part of a neural network
You can create an embedding while training a neural network for your target task. This approach gets you an embedding well customized for your particular system, but may take longer than training the embedding separately.

In general, you can create a hidden layer of size $d$ in your neural network that is designated as the embedding layer, where $d$ represents both the number of nodes in the hidden layer and the number of dimensions in the embedding space. This embedding layer can be combined with any other features and hidden layers.  

As in any deep neural network, the parameters will be optimized during training to minimize loss on the nodes in the network's output layer. During training, the neural network model will learn the optimal weights for the nodes in the first hidden layer, which serves as the embedding layer.

## Contextual embeddings
One limitation of word2vec static embedding vectors is that words can mean different things in different contexts. However, with static embeddings, each word is represented by a single point in vector space, even though it may have a variety of meanings.

Contextual embeddings were developed to address this limitation. Contextual embeddings allow a word to be represented by multiple embeddings that incorporate information about the surrounding words as well as the word itself. Orange would have a different embedding for every unique sentence containing the word in the dataset.

Some methods for creating contextual embeddings, like ELMo, take the static embedding of an example, such as the word2vec vector for a word in a sentence, and transform it by a function that incorporates information about the words around it. This produces a contextual embedding.

### Details on contextual embeddings
For ELMo models specifically, the static embedding is aggregated with embeddings taken from other layers, which encode front-to-back and back-to-front readings of the sentence.  

BERT models mask part of the sequence that the model takes as input.  

Transformer models use a self-attention layer to weight the relevance of the other words in a sequence to each individual word. They also add the relevant column from a positional embedding matrix (see positional encoding) to each previously learned token embedding, element by element, to produce the input embedding that is fed into the rest of the model for inference. This input embedding, unique to each distinct textual sequence, is a contextual embedding.



## Reference
https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/crash-course/embeddings/embedding-space