# Determinants
## Introduction to Determinants
### The Determinant of a Matrix
For $n>1$,
$$
\det A = a_{11}\det A_{11} - a_{12}\det A_{12} + \cdots + (-1)^{1+n} a_{1n}\det A_{1n}
$$
where $A_{i,j}$ is the matrix obtained by eliminating row $i$ and column $j$ of $A$.

For example,
$$
\det \begin{pmatrix}
3 & -5 & 0 \\
2 & 4 & -1 \\
0 & 2 & 0
\end{pmatrix}
= 3 \begin{vmatrix}
4 & -1 \\
2 & 0
\end{vmatrix}
- (-5) \begin{vmatrix}
2 & -1 \\
0 & 0
\end{vmatrix}
+ 0 \begin{vmatrix}
2 & 4 \\
0 & 2
\end{vmatrix}
$$

### Cofactors and Triangular Matrices
The $(i, j)$ cofactor of an $n \times n$ matrix $A$ can be represented as follows.
$$C_{ij} = (-1)^{i+j} \det(A_{ij})$$
The determinant of a matrix $A$ can be computed down any row
or column of the matrix. For instance, down the $j$ th column,
the determinant can be shown as follows.
$$
\det A = a_{1j}C_{1j} + a_{2j}C_{2j} + \cdots + a_{nj}C_{nj}
$$
For example, Let's calculate following matrix $A$ using cofactors.
$$
A = \begin{pmatrix}
5 & 4 & 3 & 2 \\
0 & 1 & 2 & 0 \\
0 & -1 & 1 & 0 \\
0 & 1 & 1 & 3
\end{pmatrix} \\[5pt]

|A| = 5C_{11} + 0C_{21} + 0C_{31} + 0C_{41}\\[5pt] 
= 5(-1)^{1+1}
\begin{vmatrix}
1 & 2 & 0 \\
-1 & 1 & 0 \\
1 & 1 & 3
\end{vmatrix} \\[5pt]
= 5(0C_{13} + 0C_{23} + 3C_{33})
= 15(-1)^{3+3}
\begin{vmatrix}
1 & 2 \\
-1 & 1
\end{vmatrix} 
= 45
$$

### Determinant of Triangular Matrices
The determinant of Triangular matrices will be the product of
the entries on the main diagonal.  
If A is a triangular matrix then $\text{det} A = a_{11}a_{22} \cdots a_{nn}$

### Computational Eficiency
In general, the computation of a co-factor expansion for an $N \times N$ matrix requires roughly $N!$ multiplications. Co-factor expansions may not be practical, but determinants are still useful.  
Determinants are very useful in multivariable calculus for solving certain integration problems.

## Properties of the Determinant
### Determinants and Row Operations
Row operations give us a more eficient way to compute determinants. Theorem of Row Operations and the Determinant are listed as follows.  
Let $A$ be a square matrix.

1. If a multiple of a row of $A$ is added to another row to
produce $B$, then det $B$ = det $A$.
$$
B =
\begin{pmatrix}
a & b \\
c + ka & d + kb
\end{pmatrix},
\quad
\det(B) = a(d+kb) - b(c+ka) = ad - bc = \det(A)
$$
2. If two rows are interchanged to produce $B$, then
det $B$ = -det $A$.
$$
B =
\begin{pmatrix}
c & d \\
a & b
\end{pmatrix},
\quad
\det(B) = bc - ad = -(ad - bc) = -\det(A)
$$
3. If one row of $A$ is multiplied by a scalar $k$ to produce $B$,
then det $B$ = $k$ det $A$.
$$
B =
\begin{pmatrix}
ka & kb \\
c & d
\end{pmatrix},
\quad
\det(B) = kad - kbc = k(ad - bc) = k\det(A)
$$

### Properties of Determinants
For any square matrices $A$ and $B$, we can show the following.
1. det $A$ = det $A^T$
2. $A$ is invertible if and only if det $A \neq 0$
3. det $(AB)$ = det $A$ $\cdot$ det $B$
4. if $A$ is invertible, then det $(A^{-1}) = \frac{1}{\text{det} A}$

## Volume and Linear Transformations
### Determinants and the Area of a Parallelogram 
The absolute value of the determinant of a 2 2 matrix, whose
columns determine adjacent edges of a parallelogram, will give
the area of the parallelogram.

$$
A = \begin{pmatrix} \vec{a}_1 & \vec{a}_2 \end{pmatrix}
= \begin{pmatrix} a & c \\ 0 & d \end{pmatrix},
\quad
|\det A| = |ad| = \text{area of parallelogram}
$$

Note that rotation doesn't change the area.  
아래는 2차원에서 각도 $\theta$ 만큼 회전시키는 행렬입니다.
$$
R = \begin{pmatrix}
\cos\theta & -\sin\theta \\
\sin\theta & \cos\theta
\end{pmatrix} \\[5pt]

\det(R)
= \cos\theta \cdot \cos\theta - (-\sin\theta)\cdot \sin\theta
= \cos^2\theta + \sin^2\theta
= 1
$$

$$
\det A' 
= \det \begin{pmatrix}
\cos\theta & -\sin\theta \\
\sin\theta & \cos\theta
\end{pmatrix}
\det \begin{pmatrix}
a & c \\
0 & d
\end{pmatrix}
= (1)(ad) = ad
$$

### Area, Volume, and Determinants
The volume of the parallelpiped spanned by the columns of an
$n \times n$ matrix $A$ is $|\det A|$.

### Determinants and Linear Transformations
행렬 A가 만드는 선형변환 T는 도형 S를 다른 도형으로 바꾸는데, 그때 부피(또는 면적)는 원래 부피 * $|\det A|$ 로 구합니다.
$$
\text{If } T_A : \mathbb{R}^n \mapsto \mathbb{R}^n,\ \text{and } S \text{ is some parallelogram in } \mathbb{R}^n,\ \text{then} \\[3pt]
\operatorname{volume}(T_A(S)) = |\det(A)| \cdot \operatorname{volume}(S) \\[3pt]
\text{where } T_A(\vec{x}) = A\vec{x}.
$$
