# Markov Chains and Eigenvalues
## Markov Chains
### Markov Chain Steady States
- A probability vector is a vector, $\vec{x}$, with non-negative elements that sum to 1.
- A stochastic matrix is a square matrix, $P$, whose columns are probability vectors.
- A Markov chain is a sequence of probability vectors $\vec{x_k}$, and a stochastic matrix $P$, such that: $\vec{x_{k+1}} = P \vec{x_k}; k = 0, 1, 2, \cdots$
- A steady-state vector for $P$ is a probability vector $\vec{q}$ such that $P \vec{q} = \vec{q}$.

### Markov Chain Convergence
#### Convergence
We often want to know what happens to a process, $\vec{x_{k+1}} = P \vec{x_k}; k = 0, 1, 2, \cdots$ as $k \rightarrow \infin$. If the sequence generated by will converge to a steady-state, and if so, what those steady-state vectors are.

#### Regular Stochastic Matrix
A stochastic matrix $P$ is regular if there is some $k$ such that $P^k$ only contains strictly positive entries.

#### Convergence and Regular Stochastic Matrix
If $P$ is a regular stochastic matrix, then $P$ has a unique steady-state vector $\vec{q}$ and $\vec{x_{k+1}} = P \vec{x_k}$ converges to $\vec{q}$ as $k \rightarrow \infin$.

## Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors
### Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors
If $A \in \mathbb{R^{n \times n}}$, and there is a $ \vec{v} \neq \vec{0}$ in $\mathbb{R^n}$,
$$
A \vec{v} = \lambda \vec{v}
$$
$\vec{v}$ is an eigenvector for $A$, and $\lambda \in \mathbb{C}$ is the corresponding eigenvalue.

Note that when all entries of $A$ and $\vec{v}$ are real, $\lambda$ can be complex (a rotation of the plane has no real eigenvalues. - 2차원에서 0,360이 아닌 회전은 방향 유지 안되기 때문에 실수 eigenvalue 없음. 실수 고유값이 존재하려면 어떤 벡터는 회전 후에도 같은 방향(또는 반대 방향)에 있어야 함)

- when $\lambda > 0$, $A \vec{v}$ and $\vec{v}$ point in the same direction.
- when $\lambda < 0$ $A \vec{v}$ and $\vec{v}$  point in opposite directions.

### Eigenspaces
Suppose $A \in \mathbb{R^{n \times n}}$, the eigenvectors for a given $\lambda$ span a
subspace of $\mathbb{R^n}$ called the $\lambda$-eigenspace of $A$.

$$
E_\lambda = \{\vec{v} \in \mathbb{R}^n \mid A\vec{v} = \lambda \vec{v}\}
$$
즉, eigenspace = 같은 eigenvalue $\lambda$를 가지는 모든 eigenvector들의 공간.

Also note that the  $\lambda$-eigenspace for matrix $A$ is Nul($A - \lambda I$).
$$
A\vec{v} = \lambda \vec{v} \\[5pt]
A\vec{v} - \lambda \vec{v} = 0 \\[5pt]
(A - \lambda I)\vec{v} = 0
$$
If $\vec{v} \neq 0$, we must have that ($A - \lambda I$) is singular. Thus, eigenvectors span the null space of ($A - \lambda I$).  
In short, $\lambda$ is an eigenvalue of $A$ =  ($A - \lambda I$) is not invertible.
	
### Eigenvalue Theorems
Theorems to identify eigenvalues and eigenvectors of a matrix.
- The diagonal elements of a triangular matrix are its eigenvalues.
- If matrix $A$ not invertible, $0$ is an eigenvalue of $A$.
- Stochastic matrices have an eigenvalue equal to 1.
- If $\vec{v_1}, \vec{v_2}, \cdots \vec{v_k}$ are eigenvectors that correspond to distinct eigenvalues, then $\vec{v_1}, \vec{v_2}, \cdots \vec{v_k}$ are linearly independent.
- Row reductions can change the eigenvalues of a matrix. Therefore, we cannot determine the eigenvalues of a matrix from its reduced form.

## The Characteristic Equation
### The Characteristic Polynomial
Characteristic polynomial은 eigenvalue를 찾기 위한 방정식이다. 
$$
p(\lambda) = \det(A - \lambda I)
$$
- $\det(A - \lambda I)$ is the characteristic polynomial of matrix $A$.  
- $\det(A - \lambda I) = 0$ is the characteristic equation of matrix $A$.  
The roots(해) of the characteristic polynomial are the eigenvalues of matrix $A$.

### Algebraic and Geometric Multiplicities
- The algebraic multiplicity of an eigenvalue is its multiplicity as a root of the characteristic polynomial. (=The number of times that eigenvalue repeats in the characteristic polynomial -  eigenvalue가 반복되는 횟수)
- The geometric multiplicity of an eigenvalue $\lambda$ is the dimension of $\text{Null}(A - \lambda I)$, which means $(A - \lambda I)\vec{v}=0$ 선형 독립인 eigenvector $\vec{v}$ 해의 개수
	
### Markov Chains and Eigenvectors
Markov matrix는 항상 $\lambda =1$ 이 eigenvalue 를 가집니다 그리고 eigenvector들이 선형독립이면, 모든 벡터는 그들의 선형결합으로 표현 가능합니다.  
가령 아래 예시를 보게 되면,
$$
\vec{x}_{k+1} = P \vec{x}_k =
\begin{pmatrix}
1 & 0.1 \\
0 & 0.9
\end{pmatrix}
\vec{x}_k, \quad k = 0,1,2,3,\dots,\quad
\vec{x}_0 =
\begin{pmatrix}
1 \\
0
\end{pmatrix} \\[5pt]
\lambda_1 = 1,\quad
\vec{v}_1 =
\begin{pmatrix}
1 \\
0
\end{pmatrix}, \quad  
\lambda_2 = 0.9,\quad
\vec{v}_2 =
\begin{pmatrix}
1 \\
-1
\end{pmatrix}
$$
일 때, $\vec{x_0}$은 eigenvector의 선형결합으로 표현할 수 있습니다. 
$$
\vec{x}_0 = c_1 \vec{v}_1 + c_2 \vec{v}_2
$$
이 때, k를 무한히 보내면, 아래와 같이 수렴합니다.
$$
\vec{x}_k = c_1 (1)^k \vec{v}_1 + c_2 (0.9)^k \vec{v}_2 \\[5pt]
\lim_{k \to \infty} \vec{x}_k = c_1 \vec{v}_1
$$
	
### Similar Matrices
$n \times n$ matrices $A$ and $B$ are similar if there is a $P$ so that $A = PBP^{-1}$.
$$
P=\begin{pmatrix}1&1\\0&1\end{pmatrix},\quad
B=\begin{pmatrix}2&0\\0&1\end{pmatrix},\quad
P^{-1}=\begin{pmatrix}1&-1\\0&1\end{pmatrix},\quad
PBP^{-1}
=
\begin{pmatrix}1&1\\0&1\end{pmatrix}
\begin{pmatrix}2&0\\0&1\end{pmatrix}
\begin{pmatrix}1&-1\\0&1\end{pmatrix}
= A
$$
From above example, matrix $A$ is similar to $B$.

#### Similar Matrices and the Characteristic Polynomial
If matrix $A$ and $B$ similar, then they have the same characteristic polynomial.

$$
A - \lambda I = PBP^{-1} - \lambda I \\
= PBP^{-1} - \lambda PP^{-1} \\
= (PB - \lambda P)P^{-1} \\
= P(B - \lambda I)P^{-1} \\[5pt]

\det(A - \lambda I) \\
= \det\big(P(B - \lambda I)P^{-1}\big) \\
= \det(P)\det(B - \lambda I)\det(P^{-1}) \\
= \det(P)\det(P^{-1})\det(B - \lambda I) \\
= \det(B - \lambda I) \\
$$

If two matrices have the same characteristic polynomial, then they have the same eigenvalues. This is because eigenvalue is the root of the characteristic polynomial.  
But note that the converse is not always true: two matrices can have the same eigenvalues but not be similar.
