# Diagonalization and Page Rank
## Diagonalization
#### Diagonal Matrices
A matrix is diagonal if the only non-zero elements, if any, are on the main
diagonal. It is easy to compute the powers of diagonal matrices.
$$
A = \begin{pmatrix} 3 & 0 \\ 0 & 5 \end{pmatrix} \quad
A^2 = \begin{pmatrix} 3 & 0 \\ 0 & 5 \end{pmatrix} \quad
\begin{pmatrix} 3 & 0 \\ 0 & 5 \end{pmatrix} \quad
= \begin{pmatrix} 3^2 & 0 \\ 0 & 5^2 \end{pmatrix} \\[5pt]
A^k = \begin{pmatrix} 3^k & 0 \\ 0 & 5^k \end{pmatrix}
$$
### Diagonalization
Suppose $ A \in R^{n \times n}$, we say that matrix $A$ is diagonalizable if it is similar to
a diagonal matrix, $D$. That is, we can write $A = PDP^{-1}$.

Note that $\vec{v}$ are linearly independent eigenvectors, and $\lambda$ are the
corresponding eigenvalues.
$$
A = PDP^{-1} = (\vec{v}_1\ \vec{v}_2\ \cdots\ \vec{v}_n)
\begin{pmatrix}
\lambda_1 & 0 & \cdots & 0 \\
0 & \lambda_2 & \cdots & 0 \\
\vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\
0 & 0 & \cdots & \lambda_n
\end{pmatrix}
(\vec{v}_1\ \vec{v}_2\ \cdots\ \vec{v}_n)^{-1}
$$

If matrix $A$ is diagonalizable , $A$ has $n$ linearly independent eigenvectors.

### How To Determine Whether a Matrix is Diagonalizable
If an $n \times n$ matrix has $n$ distinct eigenvalues then the matrix will be diagonalizable.
- $D$ is constructed from the $n$ eigenvalues of $A$. We can always construct $D$.
- $P$ must be $n \times n$ and invertible. In other words, the eigenvectors of $A$ must form a basis for $R^n$.

Therefore, the question of whether we can diagonalize a matrix comes down to whether
or not we can construct an $n \times n$ invertible $P$.

The following statements are equivalent.
- The sum of all the geometric multiplicities is $n$.
- Algebraic multiplicity = geometric multiplicity
- $A$ is diagonalizable.
- The eigenvectors of $A$ form a basis for $R^n$.

Also note that the invertibility of a matrix does not tell us anything about whether the
matrix is diagonalizable.

## Complex Eigenvalues
### Review of Complex Numbers
### Complex Roots of the Characteristic Polynomial
### Rotation Dilation Matrices
### The PCP^{-1} Decomposition

## Google Page Rank
### Long-Term Behavior of Markov Chains
### PageRank
### Computing PageRank
